Hello.
Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going back to finish the solution that we passed nearly finished over in our
previous lecture where we had started putting together this host menu sometimes things and you I take
a little bit of time.
So we're just going to do this in a second lecture.
You could have probably already done this or during the challenge because you know all the bits.
But I don't want to show I don't want to do anything offscreen so you don't know what's going on.
So we've got our host game menu.
What we're doing now is we are going to make it so that when we click host instead of trying to host
it's going to pull up the host menu so to do that I'm going to go to my main menu.
Dot H.
And I'm going to bind.
Now the host menu.
We've got a join menu and a main menu.
Now I want to have a host menu in less binding as well.
So let's just fix up some of the indentation or have a host menu.
Okay so we've got a hosting menu and what we want to do is if we go and find our main menu.
P p.
And we go to where we have a host server clicked on click button thing what we want to do is this handler
should not be host server but open host menu.
So we are going to add a new method where we currently had host server I'm going to change it to open
host menu so where we have open joined many I'm going to change going to create a new you function better
and I'm going to call it call one of them open host menu.
Like so.
And I'm going to go ahead and implement this in the C++ as well.
So I'm going to do this just above an hour hosts but because they're kind of part of the same flow going
and namespace that function.
And I'm going to go ahead and in that function in our open host menu I do need to call that from the
button.
So let's hook it up to the button like so.
And then in this menu is where we're going to be setting a V widget.
So the way I'm going to do that is just to do a widgets with widget switch a set active widget to rather
than the Join me it's going to be the host menu.
So it gets that name from Join to host and go ahead and build that and hopefully now the button should
be switching over to our host menu.
Which does mean that now we should be able to bind both our text box and our host button to actually
go ahead and host the game.
So.
Let's start with that text box that editable text box.
If we select it we can see that name is server hostname and the type needs to be editable text box.
So let's go in to Visual Studio and go to our head of file where we can create that widget bindings
So we've got currently widget binding all sorts of things.
We've got a cancell join menu button we've got joined button quick button confirmed join menu button
menu switch main menu so where's going to be the best place.
Well I'm just going to put it underneath the binding of for a House menu.
So I'm going to create a new binding which is going to be for let's see what did we call the variable
we called it server hostname.
I'm going to copy that go back to Visual Studio and change the name of this variable to server host
name and what's got to be the type the type has got to be of you.
Editable.
Text box.
Mike so.
OK.
So we've got editable text box called server hostname and we are going to create one more thing which
is going to be the button.
The you button.
For what shall we call it.
Because we haven't given it a name yet.
Previously we've called these things confirm and join menu button.
I am not going to go with that.
I'm going to go with host.
Because we've already got a host button so I'm going to do confirm.
Host the menu.
Button.
Like we did before not just for convention.
So I don't have to think too hard.
And while we're at it let's do a council house many button.
I'm just going to put it above the Confirm host menu button.
Sarah will have cancel.
Host menu button.
Let's copy those.
First off the council let's select our cancel button.
And in that cancel button rename it to cancel host menu button.
And then in our host button we're going to select that.
And first off go and copy our confirm House menu button go back into a real and paste that text so hopefully
all of this once we do compile will be able to bind correctly so that's save and compile.
Okay.
So it compiled.
Let's go and see whether we can compile the widget.
Now go to compile that widget and sure enough that's compile which means that the bindings have all
been found which is great news.
So if we go ahead and play the moment we can go to our host game menu but we can't cancel or host anything
because and we can type but the styling is absolutely horrible will fix that soon.
But for now we can't.
What we want to deal with is the fact that cancel the House don't work so let's bind those to actually
do something.
So we'll go in to the main menu c p p and we're going to copy the binding actually for the cancel join
menu because this one I want to make going to put it just after our host but it meant you but it's going
to be the cancell host.
Menu button.
And it's going to call the same thing because we just want it to open the main menu just to cancel.
Go back and open the main menu.
Now the next thing is the confirm and just going to copy the confirm even though we're going to have
a different call-back because it's very very close in Maine.
So I can just change joined to host like this.
And while we're at it will change the nulled point of checks as well.
Like so and then we want that to call our you menu host server instead.
So this is going to cool you menu host server.
And then in you menu hosts server almost there now we've got our text which is saying hello.
We don't want it to say hello.
What we wanted to do is actually get hold of the F string so f string.
Got a call it server name.
This string belongs or lives in the head of file what did we call our text item.
Got memory like a sieve.
So let's go over to the head of file and look for what we called that particular editable text box it's
the server host name or going a copy that is going to go over to the C++ file again and it's going to
be the server hostname arrow and then we want to look for something like text and it should be text
dot too.
Two string.
See if that does the trick.
And we're going to pass this server name in to host.
This is all revision.
We've done this sort of thing before.
So go ahead and build and see whether we are actually getting the thing that we would expect to be getting
from this.
So at least the compile succeeds.
Let's go over and make sure that we can save and compile our main menu we can and then we can go into
our power shell and launch a couple of instances to test this out and see whether the server name we
are getting is working.
Okay so first we're going to go ahead and host.
So hosting type in any kind of name that we like.
I'm going to go for donkey.
Gosh this text is really small.
Well hit host and it has hosted.
So that's a good step.
Now let's go over to our other game and see if when we go to the join menu we are getting the name that
was listed.
Okay so we've got server name donkey.
So it has actually worked.
We've got the server name to come across.
That's all fantastic so all we need to do now.
And if I close these games down before my fans go absolutely insane is make that just a little bit prettier
because at the moment we've got a really really ugly looking text box.
So we're going to get to our text box and go and have a look at the style area and have a look at our
background image.
And in this background image.
So we had done this all before.
So this is very much just repetition again.
I'm going to go for the button texture and I'm going to change not the image size but rather I'm going
to try and change the size of a text box that can be done by changing the size box I believe so we've
got a height here.
I can change the size box height a little bit.
I want to change some of the padding around this size box so I'm going to add some padding to the top
and to the bottom.
MIKE So that's actually added the padding.
Not that where I was thinking I didn't mean to add it to the text box but rather to the size box itself.
If we can so go to the panning and the size box add about maybe 30 and 30 of padding so that we've got
some white space around that box that's looking much better already.
And then with the text box selected if I can get it selected.
Had I get selected it's trying to select the vertical box for some reason for me host server name.
There we go.
And if I go back down to appearance and we are going to go and have a look at style.
There has got hovered images as well so I'm going to make sure that we've got the images of all sorts
in here.
First of all for some reason that dropped down doesn't want to work without me dragging.
So I'm going to go for hovered being.
Which button do we have.
I'm going to highlight it on hovered and focus is going to be the same as the button clicked.
So it gets select button click.
They're going to save that and play and have a look at our house menu yet that's looking better now
that we can click in there we can highlight it we can enter some text now just revision really.
We are going to add in some padding for that text because at the moment it looks really ugly and it
looks really really small and so let's have a look at the style again.
We're going to be looking at the font change the font size to something more reasonable.
So the font size we've used on the buttons for example as a as a guide is about 43.
So we're going to use the same thing over a year and in fact while we're at it we can copy the whole
font properties.
So I'm going to copy that font property from a button and go over to our house name and paste that font
property.
I'm going to add I'm going to just test it out so that I can type in there.
Yeah that's definitely a much better experience.
Now we need to look at the colour.
So I'm going to copy that colour and go back to our host name box and I am going to try and change the
foreground colour by pasting which has worked so I'm going to and play host type.
There we go.
We have got something that's resembling much better a good interface.
And then we're going to go ahead and what we going to add Next we can add a little bit of padding around
at text to do that we go up to this padding property as part of style.
And we're going to update the padding on the left to be probably something like that.
See I think 30 is probably sensible in this case.
And the top might be okay because we're centreing it and the right probably doesn't matter but will
make it 30 for symmetry.
Then were going to go ahead and save it and compile it and go hit play.
Get host start typing.
Awesome.
Now we've really got a host menu that we can be proud of and put our stamp of approval on.
Great.
That was a very long challenge solution.
But you know sometimes messing around with UI and making it look good can take a little bit of time.
So thank you for bearing with me.
Hopefully you'd already done most of that work for yourself so not too much of it was new and I'll see
you in the next lecture.